Readability updates (#5)
InnerSourceCommons/foundation-governance: ispo-working-group-charter.md

# ISPO Working Group Charter

This working group aims to provide materials to InnerSource Program Offices (ISPOs) to help them establish themselves, teach InnerSource, and scale. Senior leaders, managers, or individuals in various roles can benefit from this material.  

## Summary

> The majority of training and teaching content can be shared across companies when the contexts are similar.  

Author: A big 👍 on this!

I'm aware of a demand for an InnerSource Whitepaper for executives. A template to generate a polished internal Whitepaper for companies would be epic!

Is there already a pattern for a generic InnerSource working model? I didn't find one here: 

https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns

e.g.

```mermaid
flowchart LR;
    SCM-->Search;
    Search-->Repository;
    Repository-->Development;
    Development-. "Promote" .-> Contribution;
    Contribution-. "Promote" .-> Repository;
```

Author: > In the end, the desired outcomes and goals to sell on depend strongly on the organizations current challenges and desires. As does for this matter the focus on various aspects of working mechanisms.

This sounds like an opportunity to define clear content principles if they aren't already defined somewhere; I presume they will be part of future conversations.

Reviewer: Agree.

While not every company in InnerSource is the same, not every company is different. For each challenge in InnerSource, a few standard solutions may work for most.  

We document standard solutions to challenges, make them discoverable, and provide open source implementations of these solutions.  

Documents, videos, or code will likely be implemented, each generic yet specific enough to be used across companies without requiring significant company-specific work to solve problems.  

## Examples

The working group could introduce video clips to explain InnerSource's various benefits from a Senior Leader's perspective, for example, to answer the question:  

*How do I sell InnerSource to Senior Leadership?*  

IPSOs could curate InnerSource videos that benefit their Senior Leaders.  

Taking the challenge:

*How do I present InnerSource KPIs?*  

> Our group could create a software project to generate InnerSource activity charts from GitHub and Jira. Depending on GitHub and Jira report configurations, a project could be preconfigured in limited ways.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our group could create a software project to generate InnerSource activity charts from common source code management systems and issue trackers.  This project could be configured in a (finite) number of ways, depending on varying setup of the tools.
```

> 

Author: Are we thinking of an open source Jira plugin?

A prescriptive configuration of issues then JQL queries?

[Easy BI](https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/1211051/eazybi-reports-and-charts-for-jira?tab=pricing&hosting=cloud) is a robust commercial plugin we could recommend for those that can afford it.

Reviewer 2: I would suggest to avoid talking about a particular tool in a document such as the charter, because tools, even taken as examples, tend to be divisive and get old faster than such a document which is meant to last a very long time (as @jeffabailey comment shows). 
I would rather say something like: 

How to I present Inner Source Kpis ?
This working group could ensure that there is a software project that will produce charts of InnerSource activity from 
sources commonly used in open development environments such as source code repository, issue tracker or any other collaborative project tool. The project could be configured in a (finite) number of ways, depending on varying setup of the selected tools that affects the report views.

Author: I had the same thought. A proposal for a report layout may be useful.

Reviewer: Gave a commit suggestion for this.
